[MUSIC]
Next, we're going to get in to how
to navigate around our pivot tables.
So, our first question here, 2a says,
what country has the most revenue?
So I'm going to go back to our Data Set
and we have the whole data highlighted and
I'm going to go to the INSERT ribbon and
then PivotTable.
And again, I'm going to move
this to an Existing Worksheet so
we can place it right under our prompt.
I'll click on the button next to
the Location option, navigate to
section 2 -Navigating, and put this
in the cell right below our problem.
I'll click Enter and then hit OK.
And now we have our pivot table.
To find out the answer to our question,
I'm going to populate the fields
with the country and revenue.
So, I'll click the box for country and
you can see that it auto
populates in our row field.
And next, I'll take Revenue and
check that box and
we can see in our value section
that we have the Sum of Revenue.
You'll notice at this point
that it was very easy for
us to find the two variables that
we're working within this problem.
A leading practice is to create detailed
column names before starting with a pivot
table so
that we can clearly identify our variables
rather than having the default column
names of one, two, three, four and so on.
To find out in our pivot table which
country have the most revenue,
we could scroll through and
see if we could find out ourselves but
that would be time consuming, so,
let's use a tool of the pivot table.
I'm going to click the box next to Row
Labels and you'll see three sort options.
There's two simple sort options,
sort A to Z and
sort Z to A and those will give
you a basic alphabetical sort.
In this case, we want to sort by revenue.
So I'm going to click More Sort Options.
Here again, you can see Ascending and
Descending and since we're trying to find
the most revenue, I'll click Descending so
the most revenue is at the top.
And, I will change this from
Country to Sum of Revenue so
we have a numerical sort rather than an
alphabetical one and then I'll click OK.
And, we can see that France is at
the top with $3,016 of revenue.
Next, try problem 2b, where it asks, what
are the top five countries by revenue?
This next question we'll do together.
Question 2c asks, who is the top
distributor in Panama by revenue?
So, the value we're
looking at is revenue and
the two other variables we're looking
at are distributors and countries.
To answer this question again, we're going
to use our friendly tool, the pivot table.
So I'm going to go through the steps
again to insert our pivot table.
I'll go to the Data Set tab and
all of our data is highlighted.
I'll hit INSERT in the ribbon and
click on PivotTable.
Again, I will change our location to
the Existing Worksheet and move this
over to under our problem that we're
working on 2c and then I'll click OK.
So, now we have our pivot table
to begin solving our problem.
At this point, if you didn't want to go
through all the steps to create a brand
new pivot table,
you can definitely just copy and
paste one that you've already used as
long as the same data is being used.
So now, let's figure out who is the top
distributor in Panama by revenue.
So again, our three variables
are distributors, countries and revenue.
So, let's start with Distributor Name.
I'm going to click the box and you can
see it came down to our ROW section.
And next, let's think about the values.
So the value we want to
look at is Revenue.
So, I'll click on Revenue and
again, we have the Sum of
Revenues in our VALUES section.
This next part is where it
can get a little more tricky.
So at this point,
we're going to use the FILTER function
in our PivotTable Field menu.
So, I'm going to click on Country and
you can see,
that it automatically went
down to the row section.
So, you can easily fix that just
by dragging it up to FILTERS.
And now, we have a filter at
the top of our pivot table
that allows us to pick which country
in particular we want to look at.
So, I'm going to click the little
dialog box next to All,
since we are currently looking
at all countries distributors.
I'll scroll down to Panama,
click on that and
then click OK and now we can see that
we have three distributors from Panama.
In this scenario,
we only have three distributors so,
it's pretty easy to go through and
see which has the highest revenue.
But, if we had a longer list
it might be time consuming and
less efficient to do that.
So, we can use the Sort function
that we did in our previous example.
I'll click on the dialogue
box next to Row Labels and
since we don't want a basic A to Z or Z to
Z sort, I will go to More Sort Options.
And here, since we want the highest amount
of revenue on top I'll click Descending
and change our sort function to
Sum of Revenue and click OK.
So now, we have the data sorted
with the individual with the most
revenue up top and that is Maxine.
This next question,
2d is for you to solve.
Who is the top distributor of Detafast
Stain Remover- 200ml by units sold?
Remember to keep the relevant variables in
mind while you're making your pivot table
and also try using the filter function or
sort feature if you think that'll help
you solve the problem efficiently.
2e is the last example we
work together in this section.
What are the four products
that solve the most units?
To solve this, we'll create a pivot table
again using the same substance as before.
We'll go into Data Set, the whole
data set is already highlighted, so
I'll go up to INSERT and then PivotTable.
Again, I'll move this to the worksheet
that we're working on the problem,
click the cell where I'd like
the pivot table, hit Enter and
then, looks good so I'll hit OK.
For this question, our relevant
variables are Products and unit sold.
So, I'm going to take Product and
put it in our rows and
then I'll take Quantity which
represents the units sold and
that will default as the Sum of
Quantity in our VALUES field.
I'm going to go through the same process
as we did in our previous examples
to move the highest quantities
to the top and sort by that.
I'll click the button next to Row Labels
and go to More Sort Options and
then I'll click Descending and
change this to Sum of Quantity.
And, you'll see the Summary down here as a
quick little way to check to make sure
you're doing what you'd like to do.
It says, Sort Product by Sum of
Quantity in descending order.
So, I'll hit OK and
we can see the top four products
easily shown in our pivot table.
The next three problems, 2f,
2g, and 2h are for you to try.
Keep in mind all of the things
we went through together and
also remember how beneficial
these tools could be in
a real life setting if you have a large
data set and problems to solve.
[MUSIC]